## Historical


**<span class="underline">Duncan I</span>** of Scotland (b. 1001) ascended the throne at age 33
killed his grandfather, **<span class="underline">Malcolm II</span>**
Duncan’s reign was not stellar – he was spoiled, overzealous, and his time on
the throne was wrought with failed campaigns and the deaths of many Scots.
In an attempt to gain his people’s respect, Duncan attempted to invade Northumbria
He failed miserably – on his return to Scotland, many of his unhappy lords
revolted – one of these lords was his cousin, **<span class="underline">Mac Beth</span>**, Lord of Moray.
Mac Beth eventually killed Duncan I in 1040 and ascended the throne with his wife,
his cousin, **<span class="underline">Grauch</span>** – Duncan’s sons fled the country – **<span class="underline">Malcolm III</span>** went to England
and **<span class="underline">Donald Ban</span>** went to Ireland – they would eventually return to reign as kings.
Prior to her marriage to Mac Beth, Grauch had been the wife of **<span class="underline">Gillecomgain</span>**, son
of Maelbrigte – Gillecomgain and Malcolm II had murdered Mac Beth’s father in 1020
Gillecomgain and Grauch, granddaughter of **<span class="underline">Kenneth III</span>**, had a son – **<span class="underline">Lulach</span>**
In 1032, Grauch’s husband Gillecomgain was burned alive in his fortress – Mac Beth
took over his title, Lord of Moray, and married his wife in 1033 when Mac Beth was 28
During his 17 year reign, Mac Beth did much for Scotland – under his leadership,
North and South Scotland (the North was controlled by Norway) were reunited – he organized a military patrol that canvassed the entire country, enforcing law and order. In **<span class="underline">1057</span>**, Mac Beth’s reign came to an end – **<span class="underline">Malcolm III</span>**, Duncan’s son, raised up an army with English assistance and invaded Scotland – he defeated Mac Beth and became King of Scotland, but not until after his stepson, Lulach, attempted to reign – he was assassinated in 1058 after only 7 months on the throne (Malcolm most likely had something to do with the assassination) – at the age of 27, Malcolm was crowned King Malcolm III of Scotland.





## Act 1

### Scene 1
**Setting** - This is a very dark tragedy - most of the play takes plce in a darkened world - we will see that this represents the evil that is come upon the Earth.

II. 10-11 - ```"Fair is foul and foul is fair..." ``` **paradox** - the play has numerous paradoxes which are significant in terms of the plot - this one, while not immediately understood by the audience, will be proven accurate as the play progresses.

### Scene 3 
II 19-20 - **motif** - sleeplessness is a reoccuring theme throughout the play.

II 65-68 - ```"Lesser than Macbeth and greater..."``` **paradox** - the witches' prophecies are a major ***theme*** that drives the play - this one, directed to Banquo, will affect Macbeth's actions significantly.

II 108-109 - **motif** - the idea of "borrowed robes" will be a motif that goes throughout the play's action - borrowed robes, as robes not meant for one, is a metaphor for that which is not rightly yours.


Banquo is presented as the ***foil*** - the opposite or contrast in character and personally to what may be the story's protagonist - through him, we see more negative qualities of Macbeth.

### Scene 4

II 12-15 - **irony** - a great example of irony here - Duncan laments that, with regard to the former Thane of Cawdor, one cannot "judge a book by its cover" - the irony is that he is about to make the exact same error in judgement with Macbeth!

### Scene 5

II 34-49 - **soliloquy** - Lady Macbeth's desire for the crown exceeds even Macbeth's! She is willing to suppress the voice of conscience, participate in any crime needed to achieve this goal.

### Scene 7

II. 1-28 - **soliloquy** the first of several soliloquies in the play that reveal much about Macbeth's character - here his ***internal conflict*** over the actions he is considering.

